key: Text in the trailer to keep Text in the trailer to cut Text to add to the trailer Final cut suggestions

0:08	Christian Bale’s character is based on real-life Melvin Weinberg, a convicted con artist. 

0:18	The FBI hired him to help plan and execute the operation known as Abscam, which took place between 1978 and 1980. The operation’s goal was to catch politicians accepting bribes.

0:23	The character of Richie DiMaso is based on two FBI agents. Politicians were caught accepting cash bribes for casino licenses, streamlined immigration, granting political asylum, and investment schemes. (This list would look great coming in one after another on different lines.)

0:35	Weinberg’s mistress, Evelyn Knight, was involved in many of his scams but actually not at all involved in ABSCAM. 
Oh, and she was actually English. (This fact could also be paired at 1:13 when she says “play your part.”)

0:42 	Weinberg had a comb-over but not an elaborate one

0:48	The character of Carmine Pulito is a stand in for Camden mayor Angelo Errichetti, who offered bribes and took kickbacks from congressmen who offered favors.

0:56	Cynthia Marie Weinberg was much older than depicted in the film. She accused her husband of  taking payoffs and profiting from ABSCAM after learning about his mistress. (She eventually committed suicide.)

1:15	The fake sheik was actually played by three FBI agents, including an American who spoke no Arabic.

1:26	Before working for the FBI, Weinberg owned a small firm called “London Investors,” where he sold fake loans. 

1:30	Weinberg invented dozens of scams for the FBI besides ABSCAM.

1:43	The FBI recorded each of the money exchanges and, for the first time in American history, surreptitiously videotaped government officials accepting bribes. The money exchanges actually took place at the home of a Washington Post reporter who unknowingly had rented it to the FBI.

1:53	Errichetti was convicted of federal bribery charges and served about 3 years in prison.

1:59	Not to mention…  six members of the House of Representatives, one senator and more than a dozen others were convicted. 

2:11 	Many scenes were invented for dramatic effect. This is one of them. Did he really try to leave the operation?  Weinberg earned $150,000 for his work on ABSCAM. 

